>> Scott Moss: Cool, so
now we're gonna get into running Node.
Okay, so once you get Node installed,
again, we're gonna install it after we
go through this and do the exercise.
But once you have it, how do you use it?
What do you do with it?
Because you're so used to writing
JavaScript in the browser, and
the browser just evaluates it for you.
So how do you get Node to evaluate your
JavaScript and what are the differences?
What are the different
types of evaluations?
How does that work?
There's really only two ways to
evaluate your code and Node.
There's an interactive REPL and
then there's a CLI executable, right?
Basically the REPL is for playing around
and the CLI's for everything else.
That's it, you are never gonna
use the REPL for anything else.
REPL basically stands for
Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop.
This is like an interactive environment
that you can just write code,
that is ephemeral,
like it's gonna disappear, it's not
saved anywhere, it's not saved to a disk.
You're just writing it in line and
then evaluate.
So that's why you wouldn't use it for
anything else,
cuz it's not written to a file, it's
just written in time and then it's gone.
So it's just for testing things out,
you could think of it like,
if you go to the console in the browser,
that's what the REPL is.
But in your terminal, it's the same thing,
that's literally what it is, but
with just better control.
Sometimes in the console, you'll hit
enter to go to the next line, but
it actually evaluates, and you're, forgot
to hit Shift Enter to go to the next line.
It doesn't do all that wonky stuff.
So interactive REPL,
which is just for testing things out,
like I said,
it's like the console in the browser.
And the way you do this is,
once you have Node installed,
you just type the word Node.
That's it, just go in your terminal or
whatever and just type in Node.
No arguments or nothing,
just type in Node.
And then it'll be interactive and
you can start writing JavaScripts.
So to show you what that looks like,
we're gonna do some of that here.
I got so much stuff.
Let me go to the other one.
There we go.
So like I said, you go to your terminal,
you just type in Node, and you hit Enter.
And then you get this
little carrot thing here.
That means you're in the REPL now.
You're in the console.
So now you can do JavaScript
stuff in here, right,
so,
>> Scott Moss: Now I'll do a JavaScript.
See, it's just interactive.
Pretty simple.
Now, you can see again why you just
wouldn't use this to write application.
You couldn't write
an application in the REPL.
I hope nobody is doing this, and
if they are, I wanna know how.
I don't know how.
Cool, so let me get rid of that.
A lot of crazy stuff there.
There we go.
So yeah, you just type the Node command,
no args, and then you begin.
And then this CLI executable, this is how
you execute Node apps that you've written.
So if you've written an app
in your text editor,
which you will most likely be doing,
how do you get that to evaluate.
Well, now all you have to do is
just use the same Node command.
Except for you would pass in
an argument to your file.
All right, so it would be Node and
then the path to your file .js.
And that's it.
That's the only argument you would pass.
Same Node command within the path
to the file that you wanna run.
And you might be thinking, so does my
entire Node app need to be in one file?
Yes and no.
[LAUGH] That would suck,
to build and hold app in one file.
Luckily for you,
you don't have to worry about that,
it's very similar to how script tags work,
right?
If the script tags are loaded
in a certain order,
the script tags underneath it have
access to the ones before it.
So, technically, yes, that last script
file all that stuff is global has access
to everything so it is in like one file,
but they are all in separate files.
So, we are going to talk about modules and
stuff later, but no,
you don't need to put
everything in one file.
But yes,
Node will look at your dependencies and
traverse them like a tree and figure out
what to do so you don't have to do it.
And again, we'll talk about that later.
So again, to get out of here
on the Mac is just Ctrl+C, and
you can see it'll tell you to exit,
press that twice.
Or you can just type in .exit
if you can't get out, so
you don't get trapped in there.
And then running a command,
it's just Node, and then,
like I said, a path to a file.
I don't know what files I have on here,
if any of them work.
Where you can see,
you can just type in a file here.
Let me see, browser.
This one's gonna break on purpose so
let's check it out.
Yeah, so there you go.
You can see I tried to evaluate something.
This one broke.
This is a error.
This is the same thing you
would do on a console.
So if you did a console, you tried to
evaluate some jobs when you see error.
So this is the error being printed out.
But you can see node tried to go execute
this file at this path right here.
It did execute it, and then it ran into
an error, so that's what happened.